Today, it's a privilege to address you a very precious group of people.
Your journey to this day has not been an easy one.
But in this talk, we want to focus on a specific journey, the one that began when you were invited
to Gilead up to your first day in class.
Due to the lockdown, that journey brought you unexpected trials, unknown to previous
classes of Gilead.
Along the way, you said many prayers and even shed some tears.
But instead of giving into despair, we're so proud of you, you became stronger.
Your journey can be compared to the journey of a Levite, as described in Psalm 84.
So, let's open our Bibles to Psalm 84, and we're going to review the man's musings, as
he traveled from his home to Jehovah's Temple, Psalm 84.
And as we do, we will learn what it means to find strength in Jehovah, and what will
help you to continue to go from strength to strength.
So we can begin at verse 5, happy are the men who find their strength in you.
Now, what does this mean?
To find strength means you have to be looking for it.
So we look to Jehovah for strength.
How do we do that?
We do that by prayer and focus.
When we pray, we pray that Jehovah for his Holy Spirit and focus on him, he gives
us strength.
Now at first, this strength may be just enough to start a difficult journey, such as you
started when you received your invitation to Gilead.
But as the journey continues, you become stronger.
If you take the right approach, well, what is that approach?
Well, let's read on, and we'll go to verse 6.
When they pass through the Bake of Alley, they make it into a place of springs, and
the early rain closes it with blessings.
There were many routes to travel to get to Jerusalem, but this Levite speaks of traveling
through the Bake of Alley.
That's not the scenic route.
The Bake of Alley was a dry, desolate, parched area.
In fact, the word Bake comes from a Hebrew word to weep.
It seems that the Bake of Plant exuded a type of milky sap, giving the appearance of
tears which added to the gloominess of this parched land.
There may also have been literal tears as shed as ones made their long journey to Jerusalem.
But notice, notice what this Levite was able to do as he walked through this valley.
Every says in verse 6, they make it into a place of springs, and the early rain closes
it with blessings.
You see, this Levite was so focused on the joy he would have worshipping at the temple
that as he walked through the dry, desolate, Bake of Alley, this scenery along the way
looked attractive to him.
He was able to look at this dried up valley with eyes of faith and make it into a place
of water springs.
Now how was that possible?
Well, it's like when a brother once described his trip to the house of a sister he was
courting.
It involved getting on, dirty buses, crowded subways, walking past, dingy apartments, but
to him the whole trip was a beautiful scene because it was taking him to visit her.
Similarly, the Levite of Psalm 84 could see past the gloominess around him and see Jehovah's
blessings ahead.
He was energized by thinking about his privilege of actually serving at Jehovah's Temple.
To the point where even the Bake of Alley was beautiful to him.
Because it led to the place he most wanted to be.
And with that in focus, notice what happens.
Let's read verse 7.
They will walk on from strength to strength.
Each one appears before God in Zion.
Now what does that mean?
Strength to strength.
Although the Levite may have entered the Valley of Tears weak, under the weight of his problems,
love for true worship fueled every step taken.
He knew his service would be noticed by Jehovah, who would bless his whole soul's effort
to serve him.
That was the initial strength from Jehovah he had.
But when he finally arrived at the temple, the joy of actually appearing
before Jehovah God, that joy, and having his approval and blessing empowered him, it
energized him to walk from strength that Jehovah initially gives to even greater strength.
In other words, it made him an even stronger person than he was before beginning the journey.
Now for you students, your journey to Gilead was different from others.
You did not take the scenic route.
But in Jehovah's strengths, you were able to look beyond the four walls of quarantine,
beyond the lockdown, beyond the start of class being postponed.
You looked beyond the dry, parched ground of the Baker Valley, and you saw Jehovah's blessing
on his people as the governing body, gave faithful and discreet direction to the worldwide
brotherhood.
You were right here.
You watched it personally.
So though you may have arrived here weakened by your personal trials, after walking through
your figurative bake a valley in Jehovah's strength, you came out stronger, ready to appear
to appear before Jehovah God, to be trained by his organization.
And then it was finally announced the school would start in August.
And I remember, I remember the day when you walked into the classroom for the first time,
and you sat in your seats, and you opened up your student binder, you put your Bible on
the desk, and as you looked up, your eyes revealed, I made it to my journey.
And class began, day after day, and it is noteworthy that in Jehovah's strength, not one
of you, not one of you missed a day of class, that is to your credit, you wanted to learn
every day you took advantage of every opportunity.
Thank you for the zeal that you showed.
So yes, remember the lessons from class, we know you will.
But also remember the lesson from your journey.
As you take on new assignments in the future, see past the challenges along the way, see
past the disappointment, see past the tears, turn your bake a valley into a spring, and
you will become stronger for it.
And you can do this through prayer.
You can do this by praying for Jehovah, praying to Jehovah for his spirit and focusing on
him.
And remember the end goal is not the assignment in itself.
The assignment is just a means to experience your real goal of having and maintaining
Jehovah's blessing.
If you prayerfully keep that in focus, Jehovah will completely change your outlook regarding
the challenges in front of you.
The parched land becomes streams of water.
The tears of pain become tears of joy.
You will see Jehovah make you walk on from strength to strength.
From the initial strength Jehovah gives to becoming an ever stronger servant of his.
He will empower you not only to walk through the valley of hardships, but you will be that
much ready for whatever work lies ahead.
You will be in a much better position to appear before Jehovah, your God, and enjoy his
favor.
So in conclusion, take the bake a valley route through all your challenges.
There's a wise saying, a calm sea never made a good sailor.
Likewise, don't trade hardships for comfort because you will feel a closeness to your heavenly
father in a way that you never would have experienced if you hadn't walked from strength
to strength through the valley of Baker.